# Next Technical Steering Committee Meeting Agenda

- Date: 2020-09-07
- Time: 19:00 UTC

Please file pull requests to add, or discuss items to add, to the agenda.

## Items to discuss

- Hacktoberfest
  
  - [Hacktoberfest](](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/)) is incoming and we can take advantage of that event. As we are still searching for maintainers and want to encourage developers to contribute to laminas, we could start focusing on repositories which have open TODOs. These TODOs might be one of the following:
  
      - PHP 8 support + CI setup (should we create a HOWTO for this?)
      - Adding psalm + CI setup (should we create a psalm configuration template?) 
      - Adding `laminas/automatic-release` to packages which should be migrated to the new release process (should we create a HOWTO for this?)
      - *More ideas welcome!*
  
    We definitely should create a "hacktoberfest" label for all our packages. If there are already issues which could be fit the hacktoberfest event, we can label these right after the label creation.
  
  - Can we mark `Good First Issue` as `hacktoberfest` directly?
